Beginners course module 5 (#2498)
qdrant/landing_page: qdrant-landing/content/course/beginners/module-5/_index.md

3. Signal Sources & Embedding Models
4. Ingestion Pipeline
5. Clustering Risk Signals
6. Cross-Language Risk Queries
7. Knowledge Check
8. Course Summary
9. References & Further Reading

By the end, you'll have built a working Qdrant pipeline: ingest, embed, cluster, and query multimodal signals across languages.

## 1. Project Overview

Supply chain risk is invisible until it isn't. A factory fire in Vietnam, a labor dispute in Bangladesh, a regulatory change in China: these events appear as signals across dozens of data sources, in different languages, in different modalities, before they become formal incidents. The goal of this project is to make those signals retrievable before the incident.

This is the news search system you designed in Module 4, extended along two dimensions: more modalities (audio and imagery alongside text) and a new capability (clustering signals into risk themes). The five design questions from Module 4 already gave you the blueprint. Now you build it.

- 📰 **Daily Signals**: News, earnings calls, satellite images, factory footage, ingested every 24 hours.
- 🔍 **Clustering**: Group signals by supplier, topic, and risk theme using vector proximity.

> - 🌏 **Cross-Language Queries**: Ask in English, retrieve what Japanese and Chinese sources are saying.

Reviewer: not sure about emojis

  country       string   (indexed)
  published_at  datetime (indexed)
  risk_score    float    0.0 - 1.0
  cluster_id    integer  assigned post-ingestion
  summary       string   short excerpt / caption
```

## 3. Signal Sources & Embedding Models

Each signal type requires a different embedding approach. The key principle: choose a model trained on data similar to your domain, and use the same model at query time as at ingestion time.

| Signal source | Modality | Embedding model | Payload fields |
|---------------|----------|-----------------|----------------|
| News articles | text | multilingual-e5-large | supplier_id, country, language, date, risk_score |
| Earnings calls | audio -> text | Whisper + MiniLM | supplier_id, quarter, sentiment, date |
| Factory footage | video -> frames | CLIP per keyframe | supplier_id, facility_id, alert_type, timestamp |
| Satellite imagery | image | CLIP / ResNet | supplier_id, facility_id, region, capture_date |
| Financial filings | text | fin-e5 or MiniLM | supplier_id, filing_type, fiscal_year, currency |
| Social / forums | text | multilingual-e5-large + BM25 | supplier_id, platform, language, date, severity |

> ### Multilingual Text: Why multilingual-e5-large

Reviewer: Multilingual can be hard, and would be difficult for users to verify

<!-- TODO (video): add the Module 5 overview video before launch. Follow the Essentials embed pattern. Outro bumper yes, Intro bumper no.
<div class="video">
  <iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/VIDEO_ID?rel=0" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen>
  </iframe>
</div>
-->

Apply every concept from Modules 1-4 in a single end-to-end system: ingest daily news, audio, and satellite signals about your suppliers, cluster them into risk themes, and query all of it from one collection.

**Follow-along code**: [Module 5 notebook](https://github.com/qdrant/examples/blob/master/course/beginners/Module5.ipynb)

#### TL;DR

> Module 4 turned the building blocks into a design. In this module, you'll
build that design as a working system. You'll explore named vectors that
hold text, image, and audio evidence on a single point, then see how a
daily job clusters those signals into the events they describe.
You'll also learn how to search images with text and how to extend the
system across languages. By the end, you'll have

> ingested, clustered, and queried multimodal signals from one collection.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Module 4 turned the building blocks into a design. Now you’ll build that design into a working system. You’ll use named vectors to connect text, image, and audio evidence to a single point, then cluster those signals into the events they describe. You’ll also search images with text and extend the system across languages. By the end, you’ll have ingested, clustered, and queried multimodal signals from one collection.
```
Punchier, more clear

## Today's Path

1. Project Overview
2. System Architecture
3. Signal Sources & Embedding Models
4. Ingestion Pipeline
5. Clustering Risk Signals
6. Analyst Queries
7. Knowledge Check
8. Course Summary
9. References & Further Reading

By the end, you'll have built the whole system: ingestion, clustering, and analyst queries over one collection.

## 1. Project Overview

> A factory fire at a supplier's plant shows up in a local news report hours before a wire service picks it up. It also shows up in a satellite image, in an earnings call where an executive gets asked about it, and in a supplier's own filing weeks later. Each of those is a signal, and none of them arrives labeled as an incident.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A factory fire at a supplier's plant reaches you four ways. A local news report, a satellite image, an earnings call where an executive gets asked about it, and the supplier's own filing weeks later. You are building the system an analyst uses to see all four, and none of them arrives labeled as an incident.
```
More clear

| Earnings calls | audio to text | Whisper + MiniLM | `audio_text`, `text_dense` |
| Factory footage | video to frames | CLIP per keyframe | `image` |
| Satellite imagery | image + caption | CLIP, and bge + BM25 on the caption | `image`, `text_dense`, `text_sparse` |
| Financial filings | text | bge-small-en-v1.5 + BM25 | `text_dense`, `text_sparse` |

Satellite captures are the row worth reading twice. The caption is what gives an image its text vectors, and Section 5 depends on those: an uncaptioned image can never join a text cluster.

### Text: Dense and Sparse

News articles and filings each get two text vectors, a dense one for meaning and a sparse one for exact tokens: the hybrid pairing from Module 3. `bge-small-en-v1.5` is the dense side, the same model Module 4's design used, at 384 dimensions. It is English-only, and Section 6 covers what to change if your sources are not.

```bash
pip install "qdrant-client[fastembed]" sentence-transformers openai-whisper transformers torch pillow scikit-learn numpy
```

The dense text model loads once and is reused at ingestion and at query time:

```python

> from sentence_transformers import SentenceTransformer

Reviewer 2: We need to use FastEmbed, as the rest of the modules

Reviewer 3: Fixed ✅

> from sentence_transformers import SentenceTransformer

Reviewer 2: openai-whisper needs the ffmpeg CLI on the system, so this line alone leaves a beginner with a RuntimeError on the first transcribe. I'd ship the transcripts as fixture strings instead and keep Whisper as a one-line aside, which drops both ffmpeg and torch from the install.

Reviewer 3: Fixed ✅

                    "risk_score":   score_risk(signal.get("text", "")),
                    "summary":      signal.get("text", "")[:300],
                },
            )
        ],
    )
    return point_id
```

An article longer than a few hundred words gets chunked first, one point per chunk, because bge-small-en-v1.5 truncates its input at 512 tokens and silently drops the rest:

```python
def ingest_news_article(article: dict):
    for chunk in chunk_text(article["text"], size=500, overlap=100):
        ingest_signal({**article, "text": chunk})

def ingest_satellite_capture(capture: dict):
    # The caption matters more than it looks. An image with no text carries no
    # text_dense vector, so it can never join a text cluster in Section 5 and
    # never matches a text query. Caption it at ingestion, not later.
    ingest_signal({
        "text":         capture["caption"],
        "image_path":   capture["image_path"],
        "source_type":  "satellite",
        **{k: capture[k] for k in ("supplier_id", "facility_id", "country", "published_at")},
    })

def ingest_earnings_call(call: dict):
    for chunk in transcribe(call["audio_path"]):

>         ingest_signal({**call, "text": chunk, "transcript": chunk, "source_type": "audio"})

Reviewer 2: The same string goes in as both text and transcript, so ingest_signal embeds it twice: bge into text_dense at line 271 and MiniLM into audio_text at line 276. Two 384-dim vectors of identical text in two spaces, on every transcript chunk.
